I'm Steve Barsotti and I'm a
paleontologist who studies dinosaurs
there's just something about dinosaurs
there's some magic to them you know some
indescribable essence to them when I was
in high school I began to drag my family
along to every Natural History Museum
that we could find
I found local fossil sites where I went
out to collect fossils and I read as
much as I could and that was when
walking with dinosaurs the original
series has shown in the United States
where I grew up I remember the wonder
that I felt looking at dinosaurs on the
screen that were moving and feeding and
breathing this was like watching
dinosaurs in nature and that show was
one of the major inspirations to me as I
carved out a career in alien talent we
usually spend a couple months of the
year out in the field trying to discover
new fossils because new fossils are the
currency of paleontology we need new
specimens to continue to learn new
things about dinosaurs and other ancient
organisms when we go out into the field
every field trip is different sometimes
you're out in the middle of desert or
you're in the mountains
other times you're working in a rock
outcrop behind Walmart there's never any
guarantee that we're gonna find anything
there's never any guarantee the weather
is gonna be good when we go abroad
there's never any guarantee that our
passports aren't gonna be seized and
held up for a couple of days you can
never really predict what's going to
happen in the field so that that
possibility of always finding something
new is what drives us the moment of
discovery is a pretty incredible moment
especially if you've found something
really good if you found something new
if you found a fossil in an area where
one hasn't been family for and it's hard
to describe that moment it's one of
those feelings like you know how do you
describe love so it's a really cool
thing and it's that feeling is one of
the things that always drives us to go
out and explore somewhere new
besides going out and finding new
fossils we spend a lot of time traveling
to museums studying fossils that are
already in museum collections we spend a
lot of time writing about fossils
writing up scientific papers so we can
describe our findings to our colleagues
doing art work doing photography we
spend a lot of time talking to the
public going into schools giving talks
some of us write books and and write
general articles for the public so every
day is very different there's a lot of
components to our job you know every day
I get up and there's a possibility that
I can discover something new about the
world every day I handle 100 million
year old dinosaur bones I get to travel
around the world to try to find new
fossils so for me that combination of
discovery and creativity is just
unparalleled and I can't think of doing
anything else the question about what my
favorite dinosaur is I think I get asked
this every time I go into a school and
talk to kids and it's probably the
hardest question for me to actually
answer however I do have one that maybe
inches ahead a little bit there's an
incredible dinosaur that I had the
privilege to work on from Romania and
it's like velociraptor but even scarier
even deadlier it had two sets of killer
claws on its feet so this was like a
killer poodle basically they're about
the size of poodles so and just an
incredible animal to even imagine
one of the really interesting things
that we're studying now is the rise of
dinosaurs why the dinosaurs become
successful to begin with so what we're
doing is we're doing field work to try
to find new fossils of some of the
oldest dinosaurs and we're using new
statistical techniques to better
understand the evolution of the oldest
dinosaurs so my ambitions are to spend
the rest of my career the next 40 or 50
years to continuing just pushing the
boundaries finding new fossils and
trying to better understand the
evolution of these groups what dinosaurs
and other groups tell us about evolution
and about how the earth has changed over
time in concert with drifting continents
and concert with changing climates and
these are big questions and pertinent
questions as we grapple today with how
our own world is changing
so this is an unparalleled opportunity
to bring science to the public to teach
the public about evolution about climate
change about how the earth has changed
over time so I think it's one of the
fundamental jobs of any paleontologists
especially those of us lucky enough to
work on dinosaurs to bring this
information to people and whatever I
tell kids when I go into schools I give
talks is to never stop exploring to
never stop asking questions and never
stop reading especially about the latest
discoveries if you're passionate about
it go for it
maybe you can make a career out of it
maybe not but it's great to have a
passion about something
you